.\" Macros
.ds PX \s-1POSIX\s+1
.de EXAMPLE .\" Example formatting
.RS 10
.BR "\\$1"
.RE
..

.TH socks5d 0.0.0 "July 15, 2025"
.LO 8
.SH NAME
socks5d \- SOCKS version 5 proxy with enhancements

.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 10
.B  socks5d
[ POSIX style options ]

.SH OPTIONS

.\".IP "\fB\-d\fB"
.\"Sets to run with default configuration.
.\".IP
.\"Servers with persistent configuration (not required by the statement)
.\"are challenging to test since the current configuration must be known.
.\".IP
.\"In those cases, this option forgets all previous configuration and sets
.\"the default configuration.
.\".IP
.\"The default configuration has transformations turned off.

.IP "\fB-h\fR"
Prints help and exits.

.IP "\fB\-l\fB \fIsocks-address\fR"
Sets the address where the SOCKS proxy will serve.
By default, it listens on loopback.

.IP "\fB\-N\fB"
Disables password dissectors.

.IP "\fB\-L\fB \fImanagement-address\fR"
Sets the address where the management service will serve.
By default, it listens only on loopback.

.IP "\fB\-p\fB \fIlocal-port\fR"
TCP port for incoming SOCKS connections.
Default value is \fI1080\fR.

.IP "\fB\-P\fB \fIconf-port\fR"
Port for incoming configuration protocol connections.
Default value is \fI8080\fR.

.IP "\fB\-u\fB \fIuser:pass\fR"
Declares a proxy user with password. Can be used up to 10 times.

.IP "\fB\-v\fB"
Prints version information and exits.

.SH ACCESS LOG

Logs proxy usage to standard output. One connection per line. Fields in a line are tab-separated:

.IP "\fBdate\fR"
Connection processed date in ISO-8601 format.
Example 2025-06-10T19:56:34Z.

.IP "\fBusername\fR"
Requesting user.
Example pepe.

.IP "\fBrecord type\fR"
Always the character A.

.IP "\fBsource IP address\fR"
Where the user connected from.
Example ::1.

.IP "\fBsource port\fR"
Where the user connected from.
Example 54786.

.IP "\fBdestination\fR"
Where we connected to. Name or IP address (according to ATY).
Example www.itba.edu.ar.
Example ::1.

.IP "\fBdestination port\fR"
Where we connected to.
Example 443.

.IP "\fBstatus\fR"
SOCKS status (0 success, ...)
SOCKSv5 status code. Example 0.
